Add pedagogical tips & guidance on ProtoSchool's capabilities (#286)
ProtoSchool/protoschool.github.io: README.md

- [License](#license)

---
## Designing Effective Tutorials

> In our [Developing Tutorials](#developing-tutorials) section below, you'll learn how to work with the files in this repo to build a ProtoSchool tutorial. Before you get started, let's take a step back and think about what make a great experience for the learner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our [Developing Tutorials](#developing-tutorials) section below, you'll learn how to work with the files in this repo to build a ProtoSchool tutorial. Before you get started, let's take a step back and think about what makes a great experience for the learner.
```

### ProtoSchool's guiding principles

In our roadmap repo, we've documented the [guiding principles](https://github.com/protoschool/roadmap#guiding-principles) of the ProtoSchool project, which we apply to both our online tutorials and local chapter events. Here are some key highlights that apply directly to tutorial development:

- ProtoSchool’s self-paced online tutorials are **beginner-friendly**. (Advanced content is presented only when we have intermediate content in place to provide **scaffolding** that bridges the content gap.)
- ProtoSchool offers a **cohesive** and **consistently-formatted** set of tutorials for learning about the decentralized web. (It doesn’t serve as a catch-all for all formats of educational content.)
- Online tutorials provide a **welcoming and inclusive environment** for all community members.

### Brainstorm tutorial ideas as a team

> We're excited to add new tuorials to our collection, and we'd love your help brainstorming and building new content about decentralized web concepts and protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're excited to add new tutorials to our collection, and we'd love your help brainstorming and building new content about decentralized web concepts and protocols.
```

Have an idea for a new tutorial? Start by looking at the [tutorial ideas](https://github.com/protoschool/protoschool.github.io/labels/new-tutorial) flagged with the "new tutorial" tag in the ProtoSchool issue queue. If there's a similar idea there already, join the conversation!

> If you have an idea for a new tutorial that has not yet been proposed, please [open an new issue](https://github.com/ProtoSchool/protoschool.github.io/issues/new?assignees=&labels=new-tutorial&template=tutorial-proposal.md&title=New+Tutorial%3A+%5BProposed+title%5D) so we can share feedback before you get started building. With help from our guiding principles, we'll work together to make sure it fits _cohevisely_ into the ProtoSchool curriculum and will encourage you to create a content outline that supports a _beginner-friendly_ learning experience with appropriate _scaffolding_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an idea for a new tutorial that has not yet been proposed, please [open a new issue](https://github.com/ProtoSchool/protoschool.github.io/issues/new?assignees=&labels=new-tutorial&template=tutorial-proposal.md&title=New+Tutorial%3A+%5BProposed+title%5D) so we can share feedback before you get started building. With the help of our guiding principles, we'll work together to make sure it fits _cohesively_ into the ProtoSchool curriculum and will encourage you to create a content outline that supports a _beginner-friendly_ learning experience with appropriate _scaffolding_.
```

Don't feel like you have the skills or time to build a tutorial yourself? Please still go ahead and share your idea! There may be another community member who can help out.

> ### Know the capabilities of our platform (and yourself!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Know the capabilities of our platform
```

A ProtoSchool tutorial is made up of a series of lessons. We currently support the following lesson types, which can be mixed and matched within a tutorial:
- Text-only lessons
- Multiple-choice lessons
- Code challenges (with or without file upload required)

You'll learn more about how to build each lesson type in our section on [building your lessons](#build-your-lessons-repeat-for-each-lesson-in-the-tutorial).

#### What you need to know to build a tutorial

The text portions of all of our lessons are written in markdown, which is a fairly simple way to style text on the web. [Learn more about markdown formatting here.](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)

> Whether or not you know how to code, you should be able to follow the instructions here to build a tutorial made up of **text-only or multiple-choice lessons** by using our boilerplate templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether or not you know how to code, you should be able to follow the instructions here to build a tutorial made up of **text-only** or **multiple-choice lessons** by using our boilerplate templates.
```

To build **code challenges**, you'll need to know JavaScript, both to provide the starter and solution code and to create validation code to evaluate the code submitted by the user.

Although our tutorials and website are hosted within the Vue.js framework, we've done our best to provide enough guidance so that **you won't need any familiarity with Vue.js** to build your own tutorial.

#### Browser-based code challenges

> **All code challenges must run in JavaScript in the browser**; we don't currently support tutorials that run from the command line or in other coding languages. We believe that offering our tutorials directly in the browser, as opposed to via the command line, reduces the barrier to entry for our learners. (Do you remember when cloning a repo, installing dependencies, and using the terminal felt overwhelming? We do!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All code challenges must run in JavaScript in the browser**; we don't currently support tutorials that run from the command line or in other coding languages. We believe that offering our tutorials directly in the browser, as opposed to via the command line, reduces the barrier to entry for our learners. (Cloning a repo, installing dependencies and using the terminal may feel overwhelming.)
```

> In the context of lessons on IPFS, this means that our coding challenges teach js-ipfs API methods. You can help our learners who specialize in langauges other than JavaScript by ensuring that you provide links to documentation on any complex JavaScript methods that are required, so that they can focus on learning IPFS rather than JavaScript in your tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the context of lessons on IPFS, this means that our coding challenges teach js-ipfs API methods. You can help our learners who specialize in languages other than JavaScript by ensuring that you provide links to documentation on any complex JavaScript methods that are required, so that they can focus on learning IPFS rather than JavaScript in your tutorial.
```

#### Decentralized web protocols supported by our platform

##### IPFS

> To support lessons on IPFS, **we create a new IPFS instance for the user each time they submit their code**. You'll be able to access that instance in your validation function to confirm the learner has submitted successful code. Notice that the IPFS instance is not maintained from one lesson to the next. That means that when you build a series of lessons as part of a series of steps, you'll usually need to include successful code that passes the previous lessons and let the user add new code for the new step you're teaching. Learn more about this appraoch in our [instructions for building code challenges]((#build-code-challenges-and-validation-in-your-vue-file-skip-for-text-only-lessons)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support lessons on IPFS, **we create a new IPFS instance for the user each time they submit their code**. You'll be able to access that instance in your validation function to confirm the learner has submitted successful code. Notice that the IPFS instance is not maintained from one lesson to the next. That means that when you build a series of lessons as part of a series of steps, you'll usually need to include successful code that passes the previous lessons and let the user add new code for the new step you're teaching. Learn more about this approach in our [instructions for building code challenges](#build-code-challenges-and-validation-in-your-vue-file-skip-for-text-only-lessons).
```
